INDIAN PENAL CODE, 1860

Section 1: Title and extent of operation
This Act shall be called the Indian Penal Code, and shall extend to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir.

Section 2: Punishment of offences committed within India
Every person shall be liable to punishment under this Code for every act or omission contrary to the provisions thereof, of which he shall be guilty within India.

Section 3: Punishment of offences committed beyond, but which by law may be tried within, India
Any person liable, by any Indian law, to be tried for an offence committed beyond India shall be dealt with according to the provisions of this Code for any act committed beyond India in the same manner as if such act had been committed within India.

Section 4: Extension of Code to extra-territorial offences
The provisions of this Code apply also to any offence committed by:
(1) any citizen of India in any place without and beyond India;
(2) any person on any ship or aircraft registered in India wherever it may be.

Section 107: Abetment
A person abets the doing of a thing, who—
First—Instigates any person to do that thing; or
Secondly—Engages with one or more other person or persons in any conspiracy for the doing of that thing; or
Thirdly—Intentionally aids, by any act or illegal omission, the doing of that thing.

Section 108: Abettor
A person who abets the commission of an offence is called an abettor.

Section 141: Unlawful assembly
An assembly of five or more persons is designated an “unlawful assembly”, if the common object of the persons composing that assembly is—
(1) To overawe by criminal force the Central or any State Government or Parliament or the Legislature of any State, or
(2) To resist the execution of any law, or
(3) To commit any mischief or criminal trespass, or other offence.

Section 144: Joining unlawful assembly armed with deadly weapon
Whoever, being armed with any deadly weapon, is a member of an unlawful assembly, shall be punished with imprisonment.

Section 299: Culpable homicide
Whoever causes death by doing an act with the intention of causing death, or with the intention of causing such bodily injury as is likely to cause death, commits the offence of culpable homicide.

Section 300: Murder
Except in the cases hereinafter excepted, culpable homicide is murder if the act by which the death is caused is done with the intention of causing death.

Section 302: Punishment for murder
Whoever commits murder shall be punished with death, or imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine.
